# Purpose

The goal of this analysis was to ascertain the effectiveness and necessity of continued outreach to students who made appointments with the academic advising staff to be enrolled but did not show up to the appointment. Appointments are held in various modalities&emdash;Zoom, phone, and in-person. The concern here is labor allocation. Advisors at larger community colleges typically have 650 to 900 meetings with students throughout a semester. Therefore, their time resource is a scarce commodity. If students who fail to attend appointments are contacted a second and third time after the appointment, the outcomes can vary. At best, the time was well spent by an advisor, and the student is assisted. At worst, the student may become frustrated with the additional contacts, and the advisor's time is wasted.

# The Data 

This is a *natural experiment* in that the conditions for the experiement are determined by factors outside of the control of the advising office. In this case, the two groups are those who did not recieve a follow up email or phone call and those that did. The control group is the students who did not receive a follow-up email or phone call, while the experimental group is the students that did receive follow up contacts.

**The Response**

The response variable indicates whether the studnet is enrolled in the next semester or not. 

## Data Cleaning and Wrangling

Since this data comes from a database in which the entries were made by advisors and operational staff, there were many inconsistencies. This is not data that I was able to set up myself with data validation lists to try to control the inputs. Consequently, there was a lot of data cleaning that occurred (details in the 'Bookings 2022 - 2024 Analysis.Rmd'). 

## Feature Engineering

A few features were extracted from existing parts of the data or  were created by combining different elements of the data. The year and month were pulled from the original 'Date Time' column. The 'student_type' column was created by pulling the sutdent type otu of the original *service* column in the native dataset. Finally, the 'num_of_contacts' was generated by combining the records in the *second contact* and *third contact* columns and creating a count based on what was in those columns, with the default being **one**, because every student was contacted the day of their appointment.

# Results

The analysis revealed that student types have different propensities to enroll than others. For intstnace, high school students were 27.36% more likely to not enroll than a current student who sets an appointment. On the other hand, new students who set an appointment are 109.34% more likely to not enroll than a current student who sets an appointment. 

For follow up contacts, we can unequivocally conclude that additional contacts **do not** increase the odds a student will enroll. In fact, the odds of a student being *Not Enrolled* are 8.80 times greater with *each additoinal contact*, assuming all other variables are held constant. Additionaly contacts have no statistically significant effect on enrollment. 

As a result of this analysis, the Director of Advising changed processes within the department that made labor allocation more efficient and effective. One was not having advisors reach out to students who missed appointments. The other was to impart the importance of the first meeting to advisors. Of the students who do enroll, ~95% of them will do so in their first appoinment. All of the other contacts were chasing 4% - 5% of students who did not enroll. 

Another process that was changed that increased the effectiveness of the advising office was *when* appointments were made available. We found that students setting appointments in October are 66.01% more likely to enroll for Spring than students setting appointments in January, the month of the first day of Spring classes. Working on logic, the office previously opened up *more* appointments in December and January than October, assuming that is when they were most needed. However, this analysis revealed the opposite. 
